Welcome everyone to this lecture on landing interviews earlier you mentioned that there is a well-reported
shortage of good data scientists in the industry.
However there's often a lot more applicants than ever for each individual job which means you're going
to find yourself applying to many many jobs and in a very competitive landscape.
So let's go ahead and discuss what the general pipeline looks like for applying to jobs in landing an
interview.
And we're going to take this more from the approach that this is your first data scientist position.
As you already have a data scientist position and then begin the plant the jobs often.
Once you work as a data scientist the offers end up coming to you instead of you having to seek them
out.
So keep in mind this sort of pipeline is for your very first data scientist position after you've studied
after you have projects et cetera.
So let's go ahead and look at what the interview funnel may look like for you.
So this is what the interview funnel typically looks like for people who are applying for the first
data scientist position and at the top here as your actual job applications you're going to find yourself
applying anywhere from 100 to 200 job applications usually closer to 100.
But it depends if you're applying to multiple cities that number may grow up to 200 job applications.
And as you can imagine that is a ton of job applications so it's going to take you know one two three
weeks to actually go through all these applications.
Figure out companies and you're going to start off with the companies that are your top choices then
top city choices and eventually go down down.
But expect to do a ton of job applications and these job applications you're going to realize you're
going into using multiple paths you're going to do some of them either cold applications straight on
the Web site or hopefully in other applications will be your network etc..
After those job applications you can expect to have anywhere between 30 and 50 phone screens depending
on how many job applications you actually did.
So maybe somewhere around the 25 percent range of those actually go to a phone screen that may be a
little high especially if it's your first data scientist position it really depends on your background
how good your resume is etc..
After that you can expect about half of those to go through a technical screen.
Again depends on how well your phone screen went with the recruiter.
After that probably another half of those are going to go to take home tasks and then after that maybe
a third of those are half of those are going to go onsite.
So you can see here eventually each of these gets diminished more and more so as we just saw it's going
to take many applications just to begin to actually even get a job offer.
And I want to make sure you're not discouraged by these numbers.
You may have been kind of overwhelmed that the fact that you have to apply to so many jobs.
But keep in mind even really great engineers really great product managers and really great data scientists
get rejected all the time for no good reason.
It's actually well-documented problem within the technology space in general that the actual interview
process often just rejects really great candidates.
Straight out the gate.
So for example you have here some tweets and you may be wondering Who are these people.
Well you can see on the bottom right there is Max Howell.
And here he is sending a tweet that he's complaining.
He's actually the person who wrote homebrew with which if you've ever used some sort of technical programming
language on Mac OS you're probably familiar of homebrew.
It's a really popular way to install software onto a Mac.
So he wrote it and a ton of Engineers use it.
Basically any software engineer that's using Mac has at least heard of homebrew and more likely they
are using it.
You can see here he's complaining that he wasn't able to do a very specific data structure task on a
white board.
So I've censored the rest of it.
And so he was rejected from Google.
Now there's also the case of Brian Akten and he was invited by both Twitter and Facebook.
And if you're wondering who he is he's actually one of the co-founders of what's app and Facebook later
acquired WhatsApp for billions of dollars.
So even these two fantastic candidates got rejected.
And one of them even went to go on to create a company that would later get acquired by the very same
company he was rejected from earlier.
So again since you know that you're gonna need to apply to many positions.
Let's go ahead and learn some good strategies for finding available positions as well as the best way
to initiate the sort of contact in asking for a position so the very first thing you can do is use your
network.
And this is by far the most effective approach you can use your family your friends contacts on linked
in to check for available positions.
These sort of connections that get your resume in the Hanover recruiter are going to be the most effective
approach and are going to have the highest probability of actually going through to a recruiter screening
or a technical screening.
So you always want to leverage your network as best as you can.
You may be wondering well I how much of a network how to expand the personal projects are a really great
way to expand your network or participating in competitions like those hosted on Kaggle.
That's another great way to expand your network and get your name out there get you noticed.
People began connecting a few especially if you start thing blog posts you'll end up getting LinkedIn
invitations or connections if you want in-person expansionary network.
I would also recommend that you check up meet ups.
There's tons of meet ups for things like Python for data science are using are for data science or in
things like Big Data meet ups etc. especially if you live in a larger city.
Those are really great opportunities to actually network in person and a lot of people going to the
meet ups are recruiters or managers looking to recruit people onto their team.
Now if you cant find anyone in your network and you were able to expand your network then you have to
apply what they call cold applying which is basically applying through the Web site directly.
And this is actually probably the worst pass through rate but its kind of a necessary evil you will
have to do this for certain jobs where you just have a connection and I would recommend using sites
like indeed lengthen jobs Stack Overflow jobs and monster that etc..
Thats your typical Google search find the job apply for it.
Be prepared to get a lot of rejections this way and also be prepared to receive no reply this way.
Theres also interview services and these are companies that are still generally new so keep an eye out
for changes.
But these are companies where they're basically jump you straight to the technical screening and some
sort of automated process.
And as you can imagine a technical screening is a lot more difficult than a typical technical screening
but once you pass it you kind of immediately jump onto the availability of an onsite.
Some of the more popular companies in this space are triple by interviewing the ISO and indeed prime.
Again these companies really come and go a lot.
So you may want to do your own google search for interview service companies of this nature.
Remember that applications are one of the most difficult steps in the entire interview process it really
takes a toll on you.
Do not get discouraged don't litter frustrate you.
They'll hold you back.
Everyone has to go through it.
And as we just saw even great engineers people who create great products they get rejected and they
still succeeded later on.
So again don't let this process discourage you.
OK.
I hope that helped in giving you an idea of how to go through the interview process for a data science
position.